## Introduction

This is a book about making developers more productive, embedding security practices into the SDL [^SDL], and ensuring that security risks are accepted and understood. The book is primarily intended for developers, security professionals, risk practitioners, software architects, and security champions. 

This book has a dual focus on SecDevOps [^SecDevOps definition] and Risk Workflow.  The subject matter is entirely based on real-world experiences creating, implementing, and deploying multiple JIRA RISK Projects across small and large organizations. 

The first part of the book, _'SecDevOps'_, considers different concepts related to SecDevOps, such as making security invisible, using Artificial Intelligence to understand code and applications, and the benefits of failed tests. This section also discusses how application security (AppSec) fits within the security, development, and operations (SecDevOps) world. Actions include testing, insurance, and using techniques that are part of AppSec, to improve SecDevOps. 

Solving AppSec's problems with both the work practices of modern developers, and with how to communicate with developers, inspired me to create the Risk Workflow outlined in the second part of the book. 

 _'Risk Workflow'_ details a powerful technique that gives meaning to the work of SecDevOps in an organization. The technique is a Risk workflow, based on JIRA or GitHub, that captures and tracks every action and idea raised by SecDevOps. These ideas, actions, and their implications must be considered, addressed, and accepted by the organization. This part of the book is structured by stakeholder, its sub-sections dedicated to concepts, developers, managers, security teams and security champions, threat models, and of course the JIRA Risk Workflow.  Practical examples of SecDevOps and DevOps workflows and tools (Git workflows, Docker, Travis, Jenkins, etc.) are given and discussed.
 
Developers can use the Risk Workflow to control their development workflow, and manage the 'backlog pit of despair' problem. I find that collectively, developer teams know what they need to do, but management is often slow to listen to them and they don't have the power to make important decisions about their development priorities and environments. 

The Risk Workflow, when implemented, brings many benefits to an organization, including the following:

 * makes security decisions explicit
 * provides a framework to make development/security decisions accountable, visible and understood
 * 'Accept Risk' button changes the dynamics & makes the risks real
 * focuses on the role of Security Champions and the automation of Security Knowledge and Workflows

A key objective is to allow SecDevOps to evolve into DevOps, and then into Dev. When this happens, SEC(urity) and OP(eration)S will automatically work behind the scenes in the CI pipeline.  (See this issue for more details on this objective [Issue 15](https://github.com/DinisCruz/Book_Jira_Risk_Workflow/issues/15))

### Why GitHub and JIRA?

My current experience is that only GitHub and JIRA have the workflows and the speed that allow these Risk workflows to be used properly in the real world. 

I know there are other tools available that try to map this and create some UIs for Risk workflows, but I believe that you need something very close to the way developers work. GitHub and JIRA meet this essential requirement, as they are both connected to the source code. Furthermore, most companies I work for use JIRA.

JIRA is more powerful from the point of view of workflows. JIRA allows you to have more complex workflows, and JIRA gives you a very powerful risk acceptance button. JIRA can be integrated with various other tools used in Agile/DevOps/CI allowing for future integration. 

GitHub is simpler than JIRA, and can be easier and faster to use, although its reporting capabilities aren't as built as JIRA's.

These two tools are the only ones I have seen that can make this workflow perform in the real world.

Note that the Risk workflow presented here is very different from the JIRA Risk plugins that exist currently in the JIRA marketplace.
    
### Creative Commons

All content is released under a Creative Commons license (CC BY 3.0), and the GitHub repository [Book_SecDevOps_Risk_Workflow](https://github.com/DinisCruz/Book_SecDevOps_Risk_Workflow/) contains all text and ideas.

### Feedback 

This book is based on successful and unsuccessful real world applications of my ideas on SecDevOps and the JIRA Risk Workflow. Any feedback, suggestions, or comments are welcome (please open an [issue](https://github.com/DinisCruz/Book_SecDevOps_Risk_Workflow/issues) for them). 

[^SDL]: Security Development Lifecycle

[^SecDevOps definition]:[Here](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/devsecops-secdevops-difference-kumar-mba-msc-cissp-mbcs-citp) is a good definition of SecDevOps:
> _SecDevOps (Securing DevOps)
  The scenario here is an organisation is embarking on a DevOps and agile ways of working adoption journey. There is concern about security and we are asked to advise on how to embed security into the DevOps style of operation. And this means embedding and ensuring "secure by design" discipline in the software delivery methodology using techniques such as automated security review of code, automated application security testing, educating and empowering developers to use secure design patterns etc._
